- [Instructor] Of course any discussion
about Microservice Framework
wouldn't be complete without talking about REST,
the de facto communication standard for web services,
especially within microservices.
Now, because Quarkus implements MicroProfile,
JAX-RS is the REST interface.
JAX-RS itself is a well-documented interface.
So we we'll just talk about some of the basics.
You can get a lot more depth
by reading through all that documentation.
Now, classes that should respond
to web requests are annotated
with an @Path annotation,
which takes the value.
And that value is the actual path off of the context route.
So you don't need to put in the whole context route.
It's just everything
after that point is what you put in the path statement.
Now, methods within those classes are directly annotated
with the HTTP verb that they listened to.
And that's really where all the traffic is going.
So the class points that in the direction
and then the method takes over.
Now you can annotate methods with @Path
if you would like to
and sometimes you need to
but those are all based on an additive
of anything annotated on the class
and then the context route.
Now, content type
and accept headers are handled with produces
and consumes annotations on the methods themselves.
These annotations take enumerations
for the various viable media types.
Query parameters
which are used for optional values for the request
and are handled with the @QueryParam annotation
in the method signature itself
and path parameters themselves are resolved in two parts.
First, the path will contain a variable wrapped
in curly braces.
Then in the method signature
the variable is annotated with an @PathParam annotation.
Now I just want to walk through an example flow
of what a web request will look like
in a Quarkus based application.
So we're going to start with our network represented
by the cloud
and our Quarkus based container exposed
via its servlet container.
Now, the request comes into the servlet
from the network itself
and all of Quarkas is going to do
is take that request and map it.
And it's going to map it specifically
to the class and then the method
within that class that is going to accept that traffic.
And that again is based
on the verb annotated on that method.
Now the method will perform whatever operations it needs to
and return the response to the color
again via the servlet container
and the Quarkus framework.
And you don't have to get involved with that.
So you'll notice I didn't say anything here
about JSON Marshalling and Unmarshalling
or XML or any technology like that.
And that's because Quarkus
handles that all for you
and specifically JSON out of the box.
So what happens is,
is when the web request comes in with JSON
it gets unmarshalled into Java objects
and those Java objects then are passed
into the method itself.
Then they get marshalled back into JSON
and sent back out after the response comes through.
And again, the framework handles all of that for you.
This is a super high level
and simplistic view of what's going on.
And there's a lot more to unpack
both within this diagram and within JAX-RS itself
but that's beyond the scope of this course.
We're focusing on the basics
but those guides I pointed to earlier
in the course can be very helpful in digging deeper
into what you can do with Quarkus
and RESTful web services.